Welcome everybody to this R-Ladies Rome event.
We are thrilled to have Isabel Zimmerman tonight with us
to talk us about extending the data science workflow
with vetiver and pins.
A bit of a disclaimer first, this talk is recorded
and will be posted on our YouTube channel.
So feel free to turn off your cameras
if you do not want to be recorded.
And I mean, a nice thing to keep in mind
is that we prioritize creating a safe and inclusive space
free from any form of harassment,
fostering a respectful environment
for everyone to learn and connect.
So we would like for you to keep in mind
that all attendees are expected to adhere
to our code of conduct.
You can find it in our website, rladies.org.
And you can, of course, use the chat to introduce yourself
and to ask questions or just raise your hand.
So what can you expect from this talk tonight?
Basically, whether you're a beginner
or an experienced data practitioner,
tonight you can expect to learn about actionable strategies
and tips for enhancing your data science capabilities
within MLOps.
And yes, basically, we would like to welcome everyone.
This event is hosted by R-Ladies Rome.
I am Silvana Costa, one of the chapter's organizers.
I'm from Uruguay.
I work as a data scientist in tech.
And I have a background as a PhD in econometrics.
And together with Federica Gazzeloni and Rafael
Arribeiro-Lucas, we are thrilled to have you all here tonight.
So maybe, I don't know, if Federica and Rafael,
you would like to say something to introduce yourselves
a little bit.
Hello, everyone.
My name is Federica Gazzeloni.
I am one of the chapter organizers.
I'm Italian.
I'm from Rome.
Background is statistics and archaeological science.
So excited to be part of this team.
Hello, everyone.
My name is Rafael.
I'm from Brazil.
I'm a researcher in cardiovascular disease.
And I'm developing as a data scientist.
OK.
Well, and of course, I mean, we are
thrilled to have Isabel Silverman talking to us today.
And well, I mean, maybe a little bit about what is R-Ladies.
R-Ladies is a global organization
with the mission of promoting the R language
and for empowering women at all user levels
by building a collaborative global network.
It is a gender diversity friendly community
founded in 2012 by Gabriela de Queiroz in San Francisco.
And R-Ladies is now a worldwide organization
with more than 200 chapters in more than 60 countries
and 4,000 events and more than 90,000 members globally.
And you can learn more about us if you check our website
in R-Ladies.org.
And R-Ladies Rome is a local chapter of R-Ladies Global.
And our monthly meetings provide a platform
to discuss current trends and hot topics in R.
And we encourage active participation, of course,
and engagement from all of our attendees.
So we would like to hear about your suggestions and comments.
And we would like to invite you to get in touch with us.
Some of our past events have been in January,
an introduction to Cuarto with Torin White.
In February, we had two events, Building a Chatbot
with Shiny and R with James Wade.
And the last one we had was Debugging in R
with Shannon Pileggi.
Well, so today in March, we have Isabel with us.
And our next upcoming event is the 16th of April.
And this will be for Geospatial Data Science and Public Health
Surveillance with Paula Moraga.
And then in May, we will have an evening with Hadley Wickham.
And for June, we are expecting a topic in our open site
with Giannina Bellini.
And yes, next topics will be still pending to define next
talks.
So now, I mean, we would like to maybe do
a little bit of a slider to know a little bit about ourselves.
So you can scan this QR code or head to slido.com
and type hashtag model validation.
Rafa, Federica is going to take over from the slider.
So let me stop sharing my screen.
No slider.
Yeah.
We do this to know about you a bit more.
So I'll launch the first poll.
You already know about that a bit more.
We like to know in one word, what
do you expect from this talk?
Well, learning, discovering side skills, reproducibility,
new things, open mind, introduction.
So far, we have 90.
If you have any issues, you can scan the code
or head over slido.com.
You don't need to log in.
Just type model validation.
And it leads you to the poll.
So anyone has an issue with logging with Slido?
No.
OK.
So I'll close this poll and launch the other one.
So learning is the first reason.
Which aspect of data science are you most interested in?
OK.
So I'll close this poll and launch the other one.
Which aspect of data science are you most interested in?
OK.
So I'll close this poll and launch the other one.
Which aspect of data science are you most interested in?
OK.
So machine learning operations, the winner,
were half of the participants.
There might be issue with the Slido.
If you'd like to put in the chat if you have any difficulties.
OK.
Anyone else?
Let's see the last one.
We would like to know what level of experience
do you have with R programming?
OK.
So let's say not neither beginner nor experts,
but others such as middle level R programmers, which is good.
OK.
Thank you very much for your participation.
And now I'll stop sharing and leave the floor to Silvana
again for introducing Isabel.
Thank you.
Oh, nothing.
I was saying that, yes, Federica said
now it's time to hand over the floor to Isabel Zimmerman.
Please join me in welcoming her.
She's a software engineer at Fawcett,
where she works primarily on tools for MLOps tasks.
And she also serves as a current editor-in-chief
at PyOpenSci, where she helps facilitate
open scientific software in the Python ecosystem.
So without further ado, let's welcome her
to talk about extending the data science
workflow with Vetiver and Finns.
And thank you very much, Isabel, for making the time
to be here with us tonight.
Of course.
Thank you, Federica and Silvana and Raffaella
for having me here.
Let me share my desktop.
OK.
So thanks, everyone, for joining me on this Friday afternoon
or evening or morning, depending on where
you're at in the world.
I hope you're as excited to learn about Vetiver and Finns
as I am to teach it today.
And Vetiver and Finns and this whole idea
of extending the data science workflow
is something that's super near and dear to my heart.
But while you guys are listening,
there is a small code along.
At the end, it's only going to be like 30 lines of R code.
A lot of those are empty lines as well.
But if you can install a few packages,
if you're interested in joining this code along at the end,
these are the packages that you should have installed.
I do have a link to the slides.
That should be where we're at right now.
So if you want to open up your RStudio IDE
or wherever you are writing R code
and have these packages installed,
should be ready to go.
All right.
So who am I?
This is me.
And I actually recently graduated with my master's degree.
I did the whole full-time work and full-time school thing
while I was doing my master's degree.
As I was working at Posit, I was writing this Vetiver framework
and finishing my degree.
And part of what made me so excited about MLOps
was because of what I had learned in my degree.
And when I was learning about data science,
my degree was in data science, half computer science,
half data science, one of those weird in-between things.
But I learned about a data science workflow
that looked like this.
You start with some data.
You collect it, whether that's from an API or from CSVs
or people are just handing you data.
You get this data.
And then you get to use some tools to understand the data.
And that's things like the tidyverse or data table.
If you are in the R world, I actually
work in the Python space as well.
So you're going to see some Python references.
So I might use something like Pandas or NumPy or Suba
if you guys are looking ever for a dplyr-like Python package.
Suba is amazing.
And so you have this data.
You've cleaned it.
You've understood it.
And then in this data science workflow,
you train and evaluate some sort of model.
That's using things like Carrot or tidymodels and R
or Keras or scikit-learn or PyTorch and Python.
Some of those are in both languages.
And as I was learning all of these different data science
things, I was learning about best practices in data science.
And I will give you guys a warning.
There is Python code on my slides.
This is not to scare anyone off.
I personally am a Python person primarily.
The end will be in R. But I just want
to show you guys that these concepts are
the same in both languages.
And these frameworks actually exist in both languages.
So you're going to get a dose of both.
So some best practices in data science
are things like setting your seed for reproducibility.
If you've worked in different data science worlds,
this is the first thing you learn
to do to make sure when you load data, it's always the same.
Just good things for this reproducible data science
workflow.
And you also learn about best practices
like splitting your data into test and training data sets.
So you're not giving your model the answers
while you're training it.
There's whole workbooks, whole textbooks
on these best practices that we will not dive into today.
But it's good to know these are very well-known things.
Making sure you're choosing the right feature
engineering for your model.
Making sure you're putting these things into a pipeline
if it's feature engineering that you're training.
These are things that span across languages
that you kind of always have to keep in mind
as you are doing data science.
But my first job as a data scientist
before I was building software, the problems
I encountered as a data scientist were different.
I knew all of these best practices.
But I realized the issues I was running into
is how do you share data with your teammates?
Like, are you emailing everybody CSVs or Excel files?
How are you sharing models with each other?
Is it on Git?
Is it, again, emailing things around?
And how do you get people who don't code as much
to be able to engage with the things that you have created?
Oftentimes, at the end, you have a Shiny application
that your model is running in.
And how do you put that model into a Shiny application?
There's a lot of different problems
when you're putting this whole cycle of data science
together that are just kind of beyond the best practices
that I had learned in school.
So a lot of these practices maybe weren't enough.
And I also learned that if you develop models,
you can operationalize them.
And so this is making sure that your models are
in some sort of larger ecosystem.
Maybe that's on Git.
Maybe that's shared with your teammates in some way,
making sure that the model isn't just on your computer.
So I learned that you want to bring your model
outside your computer.
And you want to learn kind of the best practices
of how to do that as well.
And so those best practices for machine learning operations
to operationalize your model are called MLOps.
And so there's a lot of hype around this word
that I find online.
It's like, I don't even know what MLOps is.
You can read all of these different startups.
And you read their documentation.
And you don't really know what they're
doing at the end of it.
It's kind of stressful to get started.
But here is a kind of one-liner.
MLOps is a set of practices to deploy and maintain
machine learning models in production
reliably and efficiently.
So where we had those best practices like setting a seed
or splitting your training and testing data to build a model,
MLOps are the same different set of practices.
But it's a set of practices to make sure
that the model, when it leaves your computer,
can still be reproducible and shared
in a safe way with others.
In my first job, when I was starting to learn about MLOps
and learn how to deploy models, I
was struggling because there was a set of tools that
were really based on Kubernetes.
And it felt like I almost had to be like a cloud expert
and then also like a DevOps expert
and maybe kind of a systems architect and also a data
scientist.
And that felt like way too much.
These practices are hard.
It gets models off your computer into some sort of larger system.
And sometimes tools don't necessarily
feel ergonomic for data scientists.
It felt like these tools were not really
made for people with the skill set
that I had coming from a purely data science background.
And that is kind of how Bediver was created.
I ended up changing career paths from doing data science
to building data science tools and making these MLOps tools
to feel like an extension of what people are already doing.
So I do work for Posit, the company that was formerly
known as RStudio.
Bediver is funded by Posit because I'm
an affiliate for them.
So it's no surprise that while I'm showing you Python code
and while I primarily write in Python,
there is also an R version of Bediver as well.
The code actually looks almost identical.
And that was on purpose, especially
realizing that people sometimes might
have to work in different languages
or collaborate with people who are using different languages.
We wanted to make tools that feel super easy to go back
and forth so it doesn't feel like you
have to start from zero if you're
moving between languages.
So part of the idea of Bediver is
that there's this life cycle where
you collect and understand and evaluate your model.
But it wants to fill in the gap of how
to get this model out into the real world,
making predictions from real world data
in a really safe, reproducible way.
So some of the tasks that Bediver helps with,
actually, I'm going to go back to this
because I like this slide better,
is to version your models, to deploy your models,
and to monitor your models.
And those are the three main tasks Bediver focuses on.
There are many, many other best practices
that envelops in cases.
But we really wanted to narrow down what, when I say we,
it's me and the Bediver team, wanted
to narrow down what we thought was important for people who
are just starting to deploy models, who are just
trying to figure out what this world is
and what it means for them.
So the first step of this is versioning.
And when people think of versioning,
it's normally in the context of Git,
where you have some sort of central repository of files
that people can read and write to, like push and pull to.
But people actually version a lot of things.
And they normally version things pretty badly, actually.
I think of how I am building models in my past.
And I would version.
I would start with a model.
And I save it probably as a RDS file or as a Joblib file.
So I save my model.
I name it model, or maybe something a little better.
And then maybe you update some of your features
when you get new data.
Then you re-save it, and it's model final.
And then maybe you realize that it
needs a little bit more tweaking.
And so you have your model vinyl final.
And you guys see where this goes.
You end up with all of these versions of one object
that maybe you need information from multiple files of these.
But it's not really scalable.
And these aren't really reproducible.
And it doesn't really make much sense,
because then you have to remember which is which
and all of its other information.
Versioning really is the foundation for success
in machine learning deployments.
And also maybe not just for machine learning deployments,
but a lot of reproducibility problems.
A well-versioned system, a well-versioned file
is normally going to be easier to share.
It's going to be easier for you to share with yourself
six months from now as well.
So when we think about our ideal versioning system,
it would be nice if all of these files
kind of lived in a central location
so you don't have to search between different directories,
maybe if they were discoverable by a team,
so something that's not just on your computer,
but something that can be hosted in a cloud environment
between people.
And it's also really nice
if things can be loaded right into memory
so you don't have to, like,
the problem I have with Git sometimes with data
is you'll have to go download the data
if you can't in an easy way,
load it onto your local computer,
open up RStudio, load the data in that.
So it's a few extra steps.
And sometimes Git is difficult for people
who don't have that skill set
or maybe that's not their primary job
is to be working in these version control systems.
So something that helps Venifer out
is actually another package called Pins.
And we're going to do, like, a very small Pins side quest.
You don't actually have to install Pins to use Venifer,
but they play together really nicely
and they're kind of built alongside each other.
And Pins is...
Ooh.
Oh, I'm missing a slide, but that's okay.
So Pins is a package that publishes data,
models, other R objects,
and it makes it easy to share them
between projects and with your colleagues.
Some things that might be considered good uses for Pins
are, like, an ETL pipeline that will store a model
or summarize data sets maybe once a day.
Pins, though, is not meant for multiple writing things
back and forth.
Let me really quick...
I don't know if you guys have ever done this.
Speaking of versioning, I updated my slides locally
and have not pushed them yet.
So I'm going to very quickly swap
so you guys can get a slightly prettier version
of what these are.
I'm going to open this up.
Sorry, please hold.
If you guys have not used Cordo for slides,
it is beautiful. It is perfect.
It is super fast. I'll show you live what I'm doing.
I press this button. I use fast code.
I press this one button, and my slides have reloaded,
and it's now what I mean to share with you guys.
It's only because I have a few bullet points
that are a little bit prettier,
and so I don't get out of sync.
But I will push this so it's the exact same thing
right after this.
Okay. I have way too many tabs open.
I don't know if other people have this problem.
Okay.
So it can be pinned in a variety of locations.
Pins, we can pin models,
but we can also pin other things like data.
So if you have things as a CSV
or as something in like an arrow format,
you can pin actual full files.
I know people who pin entire packages, actually,
and anything that's an RDS object, you're able to pin.
So what's actually super useful about pins,
this is kind of a side quest,
is that it actually is meant to go across languages as well.
So if you are pinning something that can be loaded
in R and Python,
I collaborate with my teammates all the time.
I'll pin up data in R
because it's a lot easier to clean data in R,
and then I'll read it into Python
and use that exact same data set
that I have just updated in R,
pull it into Python for machine learning
or something like that.
So it's good for pipelines where things is read and or updated.
Pins is not really meant to have multiple people
writing data to it at once.
You can have as many people as you want reading from it,
but you can't have multiple writes.
That is kind of a downside of pins.
One thing that we see people try to do,
and then I just kind of want to get ahead of,
is don't try to make like a Google form with a pin.
These are just files.
So if you're trying to have multiple people
like update the same file at once,
it might get corrupt.
But if one person or if, say, some sort of system
is reading and writing this pin one at a time
or you want to share something for multiple people to ingest,
pins is good.
Please don't make a Google format of it.
I can tell you right now,
I've had some horror stories from that.
But what works really well is people have like GitHub
Actions running where it will update a notebook
or something like that,
and pins is kind of a perfect solution for them.
And pins is built to be like super easy to use.
This is what it looks like in Python.
In R, it's essentially just model board equals word temp.
So this is what you would do if you wanted to make a board
that goes directly on your computer.
Pins works off this mental model where imagine you create
like kind of like a pin board.
I kind of have one right here on my wall
where it's a collecting spot for a lot of different information.
So you make a board and you pin different objects to it.
For this, it'll be something that doesn't last on my computer,
but it's good for like demo purposes
or if you're just trying stuff out.
This is a Python specific thing I won't dig into.
If you're interested in what a pickle file is in Python,
I'm happy to discuss.
So this is the temporary board.
If you want to change it to be a S3 board,
it would just be board underscore S3
or board underscore Azure, whatever.
So it's super easy to like switch between boards
or something like that.
And this is where Vediver comes in.
So let's say we are in our data science workflow.
We have created our model.
It's called RFPipe.
This is like a random forest pipeline that I created.
And we're ready to deploy it.
So we want to create this deployable model object
called a Vediver model.
And our inputs into this Vediver model
are going to be the model itself that we've created.
And then we're going to give it a name as well.
And the things that are useful about using this Vediver model
object is that it holds onto a lot of information for you.
Inside this Vediver model, you're
going to have things like an input data prototype.
So when you created your model, you, of course,
fed it some input data.
And Vediver actually can like slurp that up on its own.
And it knows the data that it should expect as an input.
So if you have five columns and you accidentally
put four when you're making a prediction,
Vediver will tell you, like, no, that's wrong.
Your data should be five columns,
or if it has like a wrong date format or something like that.
This becomes super useful when your model
is deployed somewhere that's not on your computer.
It also will say things like what packages
are needed to recreate this model and a little bit of metadata
about the model itself.
And then with your model board and then your Vediver model
created, you can do a function that's just Vediver pin right,
your model board, your Vediver model.
And it will actually version your model automatically.
So this will be wherever you want to place it.
And your board will collect this information,
will collect this information, collect this Vediver model,
and kind of there it is.
This is meant to be only a few lines of code.
There's a little bit of magic that happens under the surface.
But it's supposed to be kind of like a natural extension of what
people are already doing.
If you wanted to see the metadata that it saves,
you can see it has the title, it has a description,
when the model was created, a hash, a little bit more robust versioning
system than a bunch of underscore finals,
as well as the required packages this used Vediver and Scikit-learn.
There's other things that are beyond just creating
these models in Vediver.
MLOps is not just about creating models that are in different locations.
It's a lot about documenting and making sure
you have good models that are well-documented, that are reproducible,
and can really show what you've learned when you've created this model.
We believe that when you've created the model,
this is the time where you've spent all of your research.
And there's no better person to write information about this model
than the person who created it.
So there are a few templates that you can pull up in RStudio.
One of them is a model card.
Actually, when you write the model itself,
you'll get a little feedback that the model card is
a framework for transparent, responsible reporting,
and to use this Cordo framework as a place to start.
And when you run this code in Python or use the template in RStudio,
it gives you something that you can give your pin,
and it will automatically document what it is able to automatically document.
And then it has fill-in-the-blank type responses for things
that a machine can't do.
And that is knowledge that only the model developer would have.
So you can see it has the model details,
where you'd have to add your name.
But then it's a place, you know, there's four features,
this is what was created, that the vet-over-framework will do for you.
It'll also have what your model should expect,
and a few different plots and analysis on your model.
At the bottom, there's also some places for you
to put ethical considerations and caveats and recommendations,
which we believe, you know, even if you don't think
that your model has any ethical considerations,
that you should at least maybe put none that you know of,
and to not just delete the section.
Just if you don't have complete information,
it's better to leave something blank to show that you've thought about it
than to delete something altogether.
And so with all of that information, with using pins,
you can version your model.
And it's kind of the first step in this process of MLOps.
So you think about saving your model into location,
it has a robust version, it has metadata, it's shareable,
it's not just a file system of you overriding your information.
So next, we'll go on to deploying your model.
So you have your model kind of saved in a central location.
And at this point, if people want to use it,
they have to go to that location, download it,
run it in their environment, and kind of hope it works.
Sometimes things work better on somebody's computer.
Sometimes it's difficult to reproduce exact environments.
You have to make sure you have all the exact same versions of packages,
versions of R.
So we think kind of the ideal scenario here
is maybe your model is running somewhere
that people can use it without even having to download it.
And that is essentially what deploying your model means.
So deploying your model, you're going
to be moving your model here into someplace
that is not your computer.
It's super useful because others can use this model
without having to load it.
The way that we're going to create this
is by using a REST API endpoint.
An API is kind of a, I think it's application something process
interface.
Essentially, it is a place where people can ingest your model's
information.
The really nice thing about this is
that it works with JSON, not necessarily R or Python,
to send requests to and from your model.
So it is pretty language agnostic,
as long as the input data information is the same.
So in Python and in R, it is pretty much one-ish lines of code
to create a local API endpoint.
In Python, it's putting this vetiver model v into a vetiver API
and then calling run on it.
In R, it is also creating a vetiver API
that you're putting a vetiver model into
and running it using Plumber, if you're familiar with Plumber,
to make API endpoints.
So this is going to give you a local API running.
But of course, what we had wanted
was a model that was not running on our computer.
We want it to be shared somewhere else.
So we have a one-liner for Posit Connect,
which is one of Posit's pro products,
where if you give it the board and the pin name
and the version, it'll automatically
deploy it as an API endpoint.
But there's also ways to do this for Dockerfiles.
So if you're working for a company that maybe is using
a different cloud platform, most of them
have a bring your own container ideology.
So as long as you have some sort of Dockerfile,
it will kind of automatically slip it up.
It knows how to handle these Dockerfiles
in these Docker containers.
So this prepare Docker call for Python or R
will create really three files for you.
And these three files are what you'll
need to deploy your Docker image locally or on another cloud.
And that's the application file itself,
so kind of a plumber.r file, the Dockerfile,
to give the system information on how to build the Docker image
and a requirements.txt in Python or an rnlock file.
So the computer that you're running this new API on
will know all the information it needs
to download the right packages and make sure
it's all of the correct versions as well
to ensure reproducibility.
And with this image, this Docker image, this API endpoint up
and running, you're able to just call predict.
So predict with the data that you are running,
that your model expects.
So that can actually make predictions
from this model locally, even if the model itself is not
running on your laptop.
So that's what deploying a model looks like.
I think kind of maybe the most famous deployed model right now
would be something like chat-gpt,
where you'll interact with it locally on your laptop.
But the model, of course, is running somewhere else
with all this information.
But you don't have to be someone who
knows how to run chat-gpt on your computer.
All you have to do is interact with it.
Which I think is really showcasing
the beauty of MLOps and what a deployed model should
look like and kind of how that should feel.
I think it's a great thing.
So the last piece of this is monitoring a model.
So when you've created a model, you
have your fresh data that looks great.
It's performing well.
But that is at the exact point in time
when the model is created.
Oftentimes, data will change over time.
I think of maybe my Spotify or whatever music listening
platform I use.
My music taste is different now than it was five years ago
or 10 years ago.
So models have to continually update,
train if I got the same suggestion,
I would probably not be on that platform anymore.
So the same concept applies here.
Models will often degrade over time.
Not all the time.
But monitoring for MLOps might mean something different
if you are a data scientist or if you are a data scientist
and you're trying to figure out what
might mean something different if you are a data scientist
or if you are a systems admin.
So what the Vennover framework looks
like for MLOps monitoring is the statistical output
of the model.
So it's tracking things like maybe accuracy or R
squared of a model, where a systems
admin or a DevOps person, when they
think that they're monitoring a model,
they might be thinking about the CPU usage of a model
or the runtime.
So I think if you're collaborating
with other teams, these are things
to keep in mind that you're clear in your expectations
of what these kind of loaded terms might mean,
like monitoring.
In the Vennover framework, there's
really three main functions to kind of help people
on their monitoring journey.
It's to compute the metrics, where you give it the data,
the column that has the date, the time
that you want to aggregate over.
So if you want to look at how your model has performed
over every one week or one year, the metrics
that you're trying to compute.
So things like mean absolute error, R squared,
and then the true value of the model, so the model
output and the true value.
You can also do things like pin your metrics
if you want to continue this information over time,
if you want to write a small script to check this
as you have different information come in,
and then to plot the metrics themselves.
There's also another, just like the model card,
there's another template in RStudio
to build a monitoring dashboard if maybe your company
or your team is someone who needs
to monitor these models over time
and wants a dashboard deployed to help look at that.
So monitoring is extra important because models
don't fail loudly.
So if you're thinking about building a Shiny app,
when things go wrong in Shiny, you kind of get that,
what is it, the skull or the sad loading screen.
Things are super broken.
Things are not going well.
And you get this loud error, and you know
things are not going well.
Models don't work like that.
Models will fail silently, and they can still
run even if there's no error.
Even if the accuracy is 0%, your model
will still give you an output.
This is something we also see with chat GPT,
where it'll hallucinate.
You can ask it things.
It'll tell you the wrong thing very confidently.
And that's where monitoring comes in,
because if you aren't tracking how your model is performing,
you are oblivious if your model is decaying.
So it's really important, whether it's
in some sort of large system or something
you're doing ad hoc on your own, to do
some sort of model monitoring.
And that will complete our cycle.
You have your model versioned as you're
creating different experiments, as you're updating your model.
You can deploy your model.
You can monitor your model.
And we can think about this kind of over a long span of time.
Let's say last year, I created a model, and I deployed it.
I have my version locally.
And maybe over the last year, I've been monitoring it,
and I realize now I need to update my model.
And retrain it with the new data we've collected.
Then I can create a new version of that model.
I get to redeploy it and continue monitoring it
so this cycle can go on and on.
So things that are interesting about Veniver that I think
is something that we should be excited about
is it's very composable.
So internally with Veniver API and Veniver model,
Veniver APIs are just plumber APIs.
So if you're someone who is a plumber expert
and wants to add in new endpoints,
who wants to add in whatever other infrastructure you want
around this plumber endpoint, you
can add that into your Veniver API just as you'd expect.
It's also something that is built
to be kind of an extension of a data science workflow.
So you don't have to change the types of models you're creating
or anything like that.
It is truly just something to add on,
not to try to change what you're already doing.
Finally, it works with the tools you like.
This is kind of along the same lines of those ergonomics.
It should be an extension of what
is already happening in your data science workflow.
So here are some resources.
Again, so sorry if these are not the exact same ones.
It's the ones that are on the slides that I have right now.
I promise I will update that right after this.
But we have a lot of resources on the veniver.rstudio.com
website if there are things that people
are interested in learning about or want supported in Veniver.
We're always taking requests if you want to open an issue.
Links to the GitHub are on that site
as well for both R or Python, or even any feedback you have.
We're very welcoming.
We want anyone who has thoughts or opinions on Veniver
to chime in.
It's an open source project to serve everyone,
to really serve this community.
So like I said, I primarily write Python.
But today, we're going to be doing R together.
So I have my RStudio pulled up.
If you are, let me go back to the repo.
I'm not a super fast typer.
So hopefully, we can all do this together at the same time.
But if you're someone who would rather copy and paste and run
code that way, I'll show you the file
that I will be working off of.
So this is the file that we're going to be working off of.
I'm going to be typing it slash copying and pasting it.
The first part is we're all going to need to use this URL.
So you will have to copy and paste this URL.
So we're going to put on our data scientist hat.
Everyone here is going to do a full data science
workflow, kind of end to end.
And that always starts with, of course, the tidyverse.
So we'll start by loading the tidyverse
and loading in this data.
So here we go.
And let's do just, I'm really bad at naming things,
especially on the fly.
So let's just read in this URL.
Let's make sure I type correctly.
So this data is from the advertising outputs
of the Super Bowl, which is a very American thing.
It's American football.
It's like their World Cup.
This is looking at all of the advertisements run
during the Super Bowl and seeing how many likes they
got on YouTube as of, I think, whenever
this data set was created.
So 2021.
And this is from an earlier Super Bowl.
It has things like, was the ad supposed to be funny?
Did it show the product?
Does it have a celebrity in it?
Does it have danger, element of danger, animals?
So we're going to make a really small model based off that.
And we're going to be using the tidy models framework.
But let's have Super Bowl ads.
Actually, I'm going to cheat.
And I'm going to copy and paste this.
But people who are following along and not
trying to talk at the same time can run this as well.
So we're going to just select these middle columns of,
was it funny?
Did it show the product?
Is it patriotic?
So it'll be this, making sure we're selecting
those and the like count.
So our input is going to be these features
of the advertisement.
And we're going to try to guess what the like count will be.
So we'll create a slightly smaller data frame
to work with.
And then we're going to be using the tidy models framework.
Now, tidy models is a little bit newer.
But what I have really enjoyed from this framework
is that it makes it really easy to swap in and out
of different types of models.
So if we want to start with a random forest model,
we use the exact same words.
Random forest.
And we can put it into a regression mode.
So we're going to do just a little regression
on whether or not these are good ads, I suppose,
or predicting maybe for a new advertisement,
how many likes that one would get on YouTube.
So then we're going to give it the features.
So we're going to predict for like count
So we're going to predict for like count using everything
that we've selected, all of these variables here.
All right.
So now we've created our model, almost.
We're actually going to put this into a little workflow.
So this is going to fit our model
from using this random forest and this formula.
So we're going to run this.
And we're going to also run this.
And now you have a model that's fit.
And this is kind of the beginning stages
of that data science workflow.
This is the point where we think data scientists have gotten to.
And there's such great tools and great support
for loading your data, doing, I can't really
call this a lot of feature engineering or exploration,
but learning about your data, selecting the columns
you want.
There's really great tools for making models.
But this is where we think maybe people at this point
want a little bit of help.
Or maybe there's less tools available.
So next, we're going to load Betteger.
And so the first thing that we are going to do,
just like we had seen in the slides,
is use this Betteger model object.
We're going to put in our trained model.
So that's that trained random forest model.
And we're going to give it a name.
And we can see here that this model has
all of these blueprints of the predictors
that the model expects.
We can see like, oh, this model later on
should have these features, show these predictors,
all this information.
So we've created a Betteger model.
And we're going to call it Betteger model.
And we're going to call it Betteger predictor.
So we've created a Betteger model.
And we're first going to pin it.
So I'm going to do something that is just a local board
for pins.
But if you guys wanted to, you could look at the docs
maybe after and move this to GitHub.
I think there's even Kaggle, if people use Kaggle still.
And OK, so I'll list my folder.
So you can move this into a variety of locations.
And we're going to put versioned equals true.
So there's a few different ways to have boards.
If you actually only wanted one model in at any given point
in time, you don't have to version it.
But we do for this one.
So I'm going to explicitly say that I want a versioned model.
A versioned board.
Then we're going to write our pin.
And for that, we're going to give it
the board, which is B, and the Betteger model, which is V.
And just like we had seen in the slides,
we get this little pop-up of, oh, we
should create a model card.
So if we want to create a model card,
you can go to our Markdown files.
And from a template, you can see there's the model card.
And here's also the model dashboard.
So if you want some templates to get started, you can do OK.
I'm not going to run this, but it is a parameterized report.
So you can see here, if you wanted
to do your pins board folder with the pin we just wrote
and the name of the pin, you could update this model card
to be for the model we've just created.
It uses these parameters throughout the model card
itself.
So you get the model description and the prototype
and all of those things.
So this isn't actually going to do too much,
but I think it's important to see what you could do.
If you want to read the board back in, the name,
you'll use the board that it's saved on
and then the name of the pin.
So the name of the pin is our Super Bowl random forest.
And we can see here, we have a random regression model
workflow of six figures.
If you save it as V2, we can see V1 and V2
are going to be the same exact thing.
So we've just saved it somewhere else and loaded it back in.
So this is the more exciting pieces
where we're going to have things popping up.
So like I said, Venover is built off of Plumber.
So when we load this Plumber library
and start a Plumber router, I still
remember the keyboard shortcuts.
Then for our last bit, we're going
to create a Venover API of holding V2.
And we'll also run it.
You can see, if you're working off that file, there's a port.
You don't need to specify all of those things.
It's mostly if you want to get different debug information.
And so you'll run it.
And it might take a second.
OK, there we go.
This is an API that is running locally on your machine.
This API endpoint comes with this automatically documented
information.
Of course, we haven't really done anything
too special or too exciting.
And we get all of these different endpoints.
So if you were to deploy this somewhere else,
right now it's, of course, at HTTP 127.0.1.
But you can imagine it's maybe on some other server.
You can, without even downloading the model,
you can see the metadata for the model.
So this is the version.
These are the required packages you need to run the model
locally.
If you wanted to get the input data prototype,
so if you want to see what the input data is,
if you want to see if, like, oh, this model
needs things that are funny, all these different columns.
But kind of for the final piece, you
can actually make predictions right from the model.
So if we wanted to try this out, we
could do if there was something that was not a funny ad that
doesn't show the product, it's not patriotic,
there's no celebrity, there's no danger,
and there's no animals, that it'll maybe
get 1,800 likes on YouTube.
We can, of course, change these.
So if this is true, you can see how that changes.
Oh, if it's dangerous, now it has 9,000 likes on YouTube.
So you can interact with this model here.
You could also interact with this model.
Let's see if I can remember how to source as a background job.
That's going to take a few extra steps.
But if you are running these in other locations,
you can just do predict.
Of course, I've shut this down now.
But you could run predict and then put your data in here.
So if I did df, and it would spit the model back out
or spit the predictions back out,
just like I was running it locally,
even if it was set somewhere else.
To use that, you would do something like endpoint.
Endpoint, and let's say the URL was at xyz.com or whatever
I just typed in.
Then you could do predict from this endpoint
and then the data you have.
Apologies, I don't have that set up right now.
I might be able to find one.
But this is really the magic of the model
is running somewhere else, but you're making predictions here.
This is something that you could maybe put in a Shiny application
where the model is not living inside the application,
but it is deployed somewhere else.
Maybe you're using the API endpoint
because it's a model that you want to update a little more
quickly, and you don't want to change all of the Shiny code
just to update the one model or something like that.
I think with that, I have gone through a small demo.
You guys have learned all about MLOps, about versioning,
about deploying models, about monitoring models.
You were so patient and kind through my slide shuffling.
So I appreciate everyone joining.
If you have, let me scroll to chat.
If you have questions, this would be a great time to ask.
Or I am online.
I can potentially pull up.
I am online at these things.
LinkedIn is just Isabel Baxter Zimmerman.
This is my GitHub.
I love to talk about this stuff, so please find me online.
It would be super great to get any feedback that people have.
I will stop sharing.
And if people don't have questions,
you can enjoy your Friday night and maybe go have
a glass of wine or something.
Thank you very much, Isabel.
That was awesome.
So much appreciated the hands-on session.
So the little demo was key for me, very useful.
Actually, there is a whole repository
if you're looking for other demos.
Let me share that with you guys.
Here is a whole repository of demos
if you want to look at different things
you can do with endpoints, if you
want to look at what happens if you break your model
and it's at an API endpoint.
What do you see?
There are lots of different things.
This should be all R. There's even
one about how to run a Docker file locally and everything.
So lots of places to explain.
How to learn how to build an API with Plumber.
I think the Plumber documentation is pretty superb.
I would recommend going there.
Veniver, if you go through that demo,
you actually have already built an API with Plumber.
So I think it's especially thinking about what
do you need in an API endpoint.
I think it's trying it out.
It's learning it.
The Veniver documentation or the Plumber documentation
are really good places to go.
I also think that API sounds super scary,
but you realize it's not as scary as you think.
And there's a lot of great demos and examples
out there, even on those different documentation sites
that I would run through.
And then just learn and let your creativity go wild.
Like, what if I added another endpoint here?
Oh, I wish I knew how to get this prediction
and then add five if you want to scale your YouTube likes.
You're like, oh, what if I wanted to make all
these predictions wrong?
So messing it up or just playing around with it.
Thank you very much.
You're very welcome.
Thank you all for joining me this morning, afternoon,
evening.